Understand that HKMA has requested an update regarding the recent incidents against HKCT and Lukfook. Please see below TI’s view, reviewed by Jason.  @Herbert please feel free to share this to the client. 

Email Comms for Clients:

The ransomware group, RansomHouse, has claimed responsibility for the Hong Kong College of Technology (HKCT) incident as observed via their data leak site.  While we do not have insights on the incident, we have been involved in incident response cases for other local clients, and have the following proprietary insight to share.

Threat Actor Profile: RansomHouse
RansomHouse is a Ransomware-as-a-Service (RaaS) group, observed to be active since 2021. To date, the group have listed over 85 victims on their dedicated leak site, including victims based in Hong Kong and China mainland. Based on their listed victims, we assess the group to conduct opportunistic targeting for financial gain. Affiliates of the group typically conduct double extortion attacks; encrypting compromised data and subsequently leaking stolen data on their victim site upon failure to meet ransom demands. 

Per our incident experience, the tools and tools and methodologies used by RansomHouse, including the deployment of Mario ransomware on hypervisor environments, reflect a consistent calculated approach to maximize impact and financial gain from their operations. Leveraging compromised SSLVPN accounts, the affiliate was able to infiltrate the victim and leverage the SSLVPN session to pivot to additional environments via Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP). The threat actor deployed the AnyDesk remote access software to establish persistence, and performed credential harvesting for subsequent lateral movement to multiple critical servers (e.g., ESXi servers and NAS storage servers) for ransomware deployment.  

Furthermore, via open source intelligence, we observe reports of RansomHouse affiliations with RaaS groups, including 8BASE (link), BianLian, Mario, and White Rabbit (link), in which we observed ransom notes with overlapping text and format. RansomHouse affiliates are known to leverage various means for infiltration, such as exploiting Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP), Windows Remote Management (WinRM) vulnerabilities via purchase of compromised accounts through initial access brokers. Upon gaining access to the victim network, affiliates typically leverage living-off-the-land tactics, making use of built-in tools such as PowerShell and WMI along with legitimate penetration testing tools and Windows systems binaries to perform privilege escalation and lateral movement activities before exfiltrating and encrypting data. 

With regards to the Lukfook incident, we observed that personally identifiable data is being sold on the dark web.  While we did not elect to purchase the data, we are actively monitoring the dark web for any further information related on the leaked details and attribution to the threat actor.  We will provide an update as and when appropriate.
